Health insurance
This page provides information about health insurance and where to get it in the UAE.

Related eServicesHealth insurance for UAE nationalsHealth insurance for resident expatriates
Related eServices
Give feedback or file a complaint against an insurance provider
File an insurance claim online
Health insurance for UAE nationals
Abu Dhabi

Under the 'Thiqa' programme, Abu Dhabi Government provides full medical coverage for all UAE nationals living in Abu Dhabi. Citizens get a Thiqa card, through which they get comprehensive access to a large number of private and public healthcare providers registered within Daman's network. It also includes broader geographical coverage and extra health benefits.

In order to qualify for the Thiqa programme, UAE nationals living in Abu Dhabi who are 18 to 75 years old need to undergo the Weqaya screening run by the Department of Health - Abu Dhabi. The health check is done in order to identify cardiovascular risk factors, and may be waived only in exceptional cases.

Amendments to insurance programmes

The Department of Health in Abu Dhabi announced a number of amendments to health insurance programmes to both the 'Thiqa' plan and the Abu Dhabi Basic Plan. The amendments came into effect from 1 July 2016. They were designed to utilise the health insurance system in increasing overall efficiency across the sector to better meet current and future demands.

Related links:

Health insurance - the official portal of Abu Dhabi Government
The official website of Thiqa
Health insurance - Department of Health - Abu Dhabi
 

Dubai

Saada is a health insurance programme for the citizens in the emirate of Dubai. It provides insurance coverage to citizens who do not currently benefit from any government health programme in the emirate of Dubai. The programme provides treatment through a large network of healthcare providers in the private sector and DHA healthcare centres. Citizens' Emirates ID card carries details of the Saada programme they are subscribed to.

Residents of Dubai can file an online complaint regarding health insurance services and/or providers in the emirate through Dubai Health Authority’s eSystem (iPROMeS).


Related links:

Health insurance for government employees in Dubai - Dubai Health Authority
Get a health card - Dubai Health Authority 
 

Sharjah

The Department of Health Insurance at Sharjah Health Authority oversees health insurance coverage for UAE nationals in the emirate of Sharjah. Initially, Sharjah Government provided health coverage only to Sharjah Government employees, their dependents and and Senior Emiratis (those who are 60 years old or above). However, since January 2020, it decided to extend the insurance coverage to all citizens of Sharjah.

 

Ajman

The Government of Ajman provides all its employees with health insurance. An updated list of hospitals, clinics and pharmacies approved by the health insurance network and claim forms can be accessed from Ajman Government site.

Health insurance for resident expatriates
The extent of coverage for employers and their dependents is determined by the employee's salary, designation etc. The extent of coverage and type of policy/scheme would determine the cost of your medical services.

In the emirate of Abu Dhabi, employers and sponsors are responsible for the providing health insurance coverage for their employees and their families (1 spouse and 3 children under 18 years).

In the emirate of Dubai, employers are required to provide health insurance coverage for their employees. Sponsors are required to get insurance cover for their resident dependents.

There are several insurance companies in the UAE. Many also provide Islamic insurance (takaful). The website of Insurance Authority provides a list of registered insurance companies in the UAE.

Related links:

New Health Insurance Law - Department of Health - Abu Dhabi
Insurance System for Advancing Healthcare in Dubai (ISAHD)
Health funding - Dubai Health Authority
Updated on 15 May 2022
